readme.md, before:

# Zen Homepage

A simple, fast, and highly customizable browser startpage designed for **minimalism** and **efficiency**. This single-file project provides a clean interface featuring a clock, a powerful search bar, and essential quick-access links, making it an ideal replacement for your browser's default New Tab page.

-----

## Features

  * **Real-Time Clock and Date:** Displays the current time and date, dynamically updated every second using clean JavaScript.
  * **Monospace Aesthetic:** Uses the highly readable **Inconsolata** font stack to deliver a distinct, clean, and terminal-like visual style.
  * **Dynamic Search Engine Cycling:** Switch between different search providers (Google, YouTube, GitHub, etc.) directly from the input field using a simple keyboard shortcut.
  * **Keyboard Shortcut:**
      * Use **`Ctrl + Space`** (or $\text{Cmd} + \text{Space}$ on macOS) to cycle to the **next** search engine.
      * Use **`Ctrl + Shift + Space`** to cycle to the **previous** search engine.
  * **Quick Links ("The Shelf"):** A customizable list of essential website shortcuts displayed at the bottom.
  * **Zero Dependencies:** The entire startpage is contained within one self-sufficient **`index.html`** file (HTML, CSS, and JavaScript are inline) for maximum portability and speed.

-----

## Installation

Since this project is a single HTML file, setup is straightforward.

1.  **Save the file:** Save the provided code as a file named `index.html` on your local computer (e.g., in your Documents folder).
2.  **Configure your Browser:**
      * **New Tab Page:** To use this as your New Tab page, you will likely need a browser extension like **"New Tab Override"** or something similar. Use the extension to redirect your new tab to the path of your saved file (e.g., `file:///path/to/your/index.html`).
      * **Homepage:** Alternatively, set your browser's homepage to the local path of your `index.html` file.

-----

## Customization

You can tailor the startpage to your preferences by editing the `index.html` file.

### 1\. Search Engines

Modify or add new search engines by editing the `engines` array located within the bottom `<script>` block.

| Property | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `name` | The friendly name that appears in the search input placeholder (e.g., "GitHub"). |
| `action` | The base URL the form submits to (e.g., `https://github.com/search`). |
| `param` | The **query parameter** name used by the search engine to pass the search term (e.g., `q` for Google, `search_query` for YouTube). |

**Example:**

```javascript
const engines = [
    { name: "Google", action: "https://www.google.com/search", param: "q" },
    { name: "YouTube", action: "https://www.youtube.com/results", param: "search_query" },
    // Add a new engine:
    { name: "Bing", action: "https://www.bing.com/search", param: "q" }, 
    // ...
];
```

### 2\. Quick Links

The displayed shortcuts are located in the `<ul id="shelf">` element under the `<section id="links">` block.

To change a link, modify the `href` and the visible text.

```html
<ul id="shelf">
    <li class="shortcut"><a href="https://github.com/" title="GitHub">GitHub</a></li>
    <li class="shortcut"><a href="https://reddit.com/" title="Reddit">Reddit</a></li>
    </ul>
```

### 3\. Appearance and Colors (CSS)

All styles, including the dark mode color scheme, are in the `<style>` block at the top of the file.

You can adjust the theme colors using the CSS variables defined in `:root`:

```css
:root {
    --text-color: #fff; /* Controls text and border color */
    --bg-color: #000;   /* Controls the optional body background */
}
```

To enable a solid background instead of a transparent one (which lets your browser's background/wallpaper show), **uncomment** the `background` line in the `body` CSS rule:

```css
body {
    color: var(--text-color);
    /* Uncomment if background is not transparent */
    /*background: var(--bg-color);*/ 
    /* ... other styles ... */
}
```

-----

## Preview

![Zen Homepage Preview](screenshot.png)

-----

## License

This project is open-source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

-----

Commit message:

configured it to be an addon

readme.md, after:

# Zen Homepage

A simple, fast, and highly customizable browser startpage designed for **minimalism** and **efficiency**. This single-file project provides a clean interface featuring a clock, a powerful search bar, and essential quick-access links, making it an ideal replacement for your browser's default New Tab page.

-----

## Features

  * **Real-Time Clock and Date:** Displays the current time and date, dynamically updated every second using clean JavaScript.
  * **Monospace Aesthetic:** Uses the highly readable **Inconsolata** font stack to deliver a distinct, clean, and terminal-like visual style.
  * **Dynamic Search Engine Cycling:** Switch between different search providers (Google, YouTube, GitHub, etc.) directly from the input field using a simple keyboard shortcut.
  * **Keyboard Shortcut:**
      * Use **`Ctrl + Space`** (or $\text{Cmd} + \text{Space}$ on macOS) to cycle to the **next** search engine.
      * Use **`Ctrl + Shift + Space`** to cycle to the **previous** search engine.
  * **Quick Links ("The Shelf"):** A customizable list of essential website shortcuts displayed at the bottom.
  * **Zero Dependencies:** The entire startpage is contained within one self-sufficient **`index.html`** file (HTML, CSS, and JavaScript are inline) for maximum portability and speed.

-----

## Installation

This repo is hosted as a [Github Page](https://shashotonur.github.io/zen-homepage/). You can simply set it as homepage and new tab (using the addon **"New Tab Override"**).

Alternatively, a cleaner approach would be to set it up without a server:
1. Open the `.xpi` file inside `web-ext-artifacts` directory with your browser to install it as an addon. It should automatically set the new tab page.
2. For the home page, you would need the addon's url.
    a. Scroll down to the Zen Homepage addon in the `about:debugging#/runtime/this-firefox` page.
    b. There should be manifest url similar to `moz-extension://<some_text>/manifest.json`. Copy it.
    c. Go to `about:preferences#home` and set homepage to custom url, insert the copied url in the empty field, replace `manifest.json` at the end with `index.html` and press enter.

-----

## Customization

You can tailor the startpage to your preferences by editing the `index.html` file.

### 1\. Search Engines

Modify or add new search engines by editing the `engines` array located within the `main.js` file.

| Property | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `name` | The friendly name that appears in the search input placeholder (e.g., "GitHub"). |
| `action` | The base URL the form submits to (e.g., `https://github.com/search`). |
| `param` | The **query parameter** name used by the search engine to pass the search term (e.g., `q` for Google, `search_query` for YouTube). |

**Example:**

```javascript
const engines = [
    { name: "Google", action: "https://www.google.com/search", param: "q" },
    { name: "YouTube", action: "https://www.youtube.com/results", param: "search_query" },
    // Add a new engine:
    { name: "Bing", action: "https://www.bing.com/search", param: "q" }, 
    // ...
];
```

### 2\. Quick Links

The displayed shortcuts are located in the `<ul id="shelf">` element under the `<section id="links">` block.

To change a link, modify the `href` and the visible text.

```html
<ul id="shelf">
    <li class="shortcut"><a href="https://github.com/" title="GitHub">GitHub</a></li>
    <li class="shortcut"><a href="https://reddit.com/" title="Reddit">Reddit</a></li>
    </ul>
```

### 3\. Appearance and Colors (CSS)

All styles, including the dark mode color scheme, are in the `style.css` file.

You can adjust the theme colors using the CSS variables defined in `:root`:

```css
:root {
    --text-color: #fff; /* Controls text and border color */
    --bg-color: #000;   /* Controls the optional body background */
}
```

To enable a solid background instead of a transparent one (which lets your browser's background/wallpaper show), **uncomment** the `background` line in the `body` CSS rule:

```css
body {
    color: var(--text-color);
    /* Uncomment if background is not transparent */
    /*background: var(--bg-color);*/ 
    /* ... other styles ... */
}
```

-----

## Preview

![Zen Homepage Preview](screenshot.png)

-----

## License

This project is open-source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

-----
